[Music]
there are a few things in Minecraft that
require patience wheat farms for example
can take over an hour to grow but I'm
tired of going back and checking on my
farm every few minutes not yet maybe I
just want to get started on my next
project or read a book or just sit
around and beat my meat the point is
that I want a farm to tell me when it's
done so I've taken the liberty of
building the wheat master it doesn't rip
lane your seeds for you your ass is
still gonna have to do some work but
here's what it does do the cheap ass
eighty minute timer waits for your week
to grow the auto harvester floods the
wheat farm for collection and the alarm
clock tells you when it's time to
collect and replant now automated wheat
farms and alarm clocks are nothing new
to the community but this is where all
the magic happens for those of you
familiar with redstone it's a self
powered dispenser timer connected to 40
flip-flops and at the end of the circuit
it has another dispenser timer but if
you're retarded with redstone like me
we'll head on up top and build it from
scratch and I'll explain as we go along
this is our redstone line I've started
us with a very simple button that hooks
on to a piston watch how the piston
fires every time I press this button
this is the very bare bone structure of
our timed farm we just need to throw a
bunch of other components in between
this button and that piston the first
component we're going to need is a T
flip-flop having a single T flip-flop
anywhere along your redstone line will
turn a buttons brief surge of power into
a sustained line of power you're turning
a button into a lever now we'll build
this T flip-flop some scratch just so
you know how to build it
it's actually quite easy it doesn't
require even that many resources
[Music]
now I just want to move this button into
a spot where we can see our piston and
see how when we press the button the
water stays on instead of briefly
surging press it again and the water
turns off but what if we don't want to
press this button ourselves what if we
want something else to Prince the button
for us well we're in luck because that's
exactly what a dispenser timer does a
dispenser timer fires items onto a
pressure plate which turns the redstone
line on after five minutes the item
expires but we have this one and many
others like it rigged up so that when it
expires it automatically fires another
item
now every five minutes our teeth the
flop gets power and turns it into an on
or off signal for the piston aka our
farm but since I don't want this video
to be 80 minutes long we're just gonna
take this redstone off the dispenser and
hook it back up to a button now every
time I press this button will pretend
that five minutes have passed on the
dispenser but farms don't grow in five
minutes most farms take over an hour to
grow into wheat so where did those extra
75 minutes come from morty flip-flops
that's where you may have heard me say
this before but I'll say it again you
don't need to know why it works you only
need to know how it works if you're
intrigued
I'm sure you'll build it and find out on
your own but just know that the Marquis
flip-flops we have the longer it takes
per button press
[Music]
now that we've got all 40 flip-flops
let's go ahead and start this for the
first time okay we got all the kinks out
of the system now we're starting from
scratch it takes 8 presses or 40 minutes
of a dispenser timer for our piston to
change states in its current state our
farm will spend 40 minutes flooded and
40 minutes dry so what we're doing here
is placing a dispenser at the end of the
line no Pig you can't be in the
schematic pigs have no purpose in
schematics fine so that every time it
receives an on signal aka 80 minutes is
when it will fire another item out and
turn the water on for only 5 minutes
before you leave don't forget to change
your testing button back into a
dispenser timer now the hardest part of
the entire farm the timer is completely
done some people might be curious about
the alarm
so we can delve into that for a second
when the farm harvests the items from
the farm land on the collection altar at
a pressure plate this plate goes to one
end of a NAND gate while a pulsar
connects to the other end of the and
gates connected to the output of the and
gate is 4 repeaters and 4 note blocks
that make a neat little tone when items
land on the plate if I have omitted any
information it's because I thought it
would be too remedial for this video so
if at any point you were confused you
can probably find a link to what
confused you here remember working with
redstone is never as hard as it looks
get this project a shot and you might be
surprised of what you're capable of
you